1|There was a man of the Pharisees, named aNicodemus, a bruler of the Jews:
2|The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these amiracles that thou doest, except bGod be with him.
3|Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be aborn bagain, he cannot csee the kingdom of God.
4|Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother’s womb, and be born?
5|Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be aborn of bwater and of the cSpirit, he cannot denter into the kingdom of God.
6|That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
7|Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be aborn again.
8|The awind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the bSpirit.
9|Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
10|Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?
11|aVerily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and btestify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness.
12|If I have told you earthly things, and ye abelieve not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
13|And no man hath aascended up to heaven, but he that bcame down from heaven, even the cSon of man which is in heaven.
14|And as Moses lifted up the aserpent in the wilderness, even so must the bSon of man be lifted up:
15|That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
16|For aGod so bloved the cworld, that he dgave his eonly begotten fSon, that whosoever gbelieveth in him should not perish, but have heverlasting ilife.
17|For God asent not his Son into the world to bcondemn the world; but that the world through him might be csaved.
18|He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that abelieveth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the bname of the only begotten cSon of God.
19|And this is the condemnation, that alight is come into the world, and men loved bdarkness rather than light, because their cdeeds were evil.
20|For every one that doeth aevil bhateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
21|But he that adoeth btruth cometh to the clight, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
22|After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judæa; and there he tarried with them, and abaptized.
23|And John also was baptizing in Ænon near to Salim, because there was much awater there: and they came, and were bbaptized.
24|For John was not yet cast into prison.
25|Then there arose a question between some of John’s disciples and the Jews about purifying.
26|And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, aand all men come to him.
27|John answered and said, A man can areceive nothing, except it be given him from heaven.
28|Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
29|He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
30|He must increase, but I must decrease.
31|He that cometh from aabove is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all.
32|And what he hath seen and heard, that he atestifieth; and no man receiveth his testimony.
33|He that hath received his testimony hath aset to his bseal that God is true.
34|For he whom God hath sent aspeaketh the words of God: bfor God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.
35|The Father loveth the aSon, and hath bgiven all cthings into his hand.
36|aHe that believeth on the Son hath beverlasting life: and he that cbelieveth not the Son shall not see life; but the dwrath of God abideth on him.